all right we've nukid our app
downloading the RSS feed but I mentioned
previously that experience Kotlin
programmers will probably have been
horrified some of the code that we've
created so far what we've got is
basically Java code but written using
Kotlin syntax in fact we could have
pasted it in the equivalent Java code
and got Android studio to convert it for
us and always they'd be a bit of
tweaking needed but it would largely
work but that isn't how the download XML
function would be written in Kotlin
though so let's have a look at how we
can tidy it up so one of them to do is
start with the catch blocks now at the
moment we've got for catch blocks which
is which all do just about the same
thing they log the error now apart from
the stack trace for the security
exception the only difference is part of
the stream that we're logging now we
could put those individual pieces of
text into a variable and have a single
logging call but to cut them that allows
us to handle things even better than
that so what I'm going to do is start by
commenting out all the current catch
blocks and then what I'm going to do is
type it in a more Kotlin like way of
dealing with them so I'm going to come
down actually what I'll do is you come
down here then we'll do a catch and in
parentheses ecole on space exception a
code block then we're gonna type Val
error message Col on string next line
went in parentheses and a code block
we're gonna type is malformed URL
exception then an arrow token error
message equals download XML invalid URL
dollar sign
that's right curly braces e dot message
then and just fix up the top any error
message next line is IO exception the
arrow token again
the arrow depending what you want to
call it quite a few names out there
error message equals this time is going
to be download XML again and IO
exception reading data colon space and
domicile left or right curly braces heat
up message again next line is security
exception we do this one rule slightly
different so I'll have our error token
again and then we're going to add a code
block we're going to start with a dot
print stack trace then on the next line
I'm going to put an error message is
equal to download XML : this time it's a
security exception and what needs
permission question mark and then we'll
put these space and the dollar sign left
or right curly braces you don't message
again it will close off that code block
and we'll end on the next line with else
and the error token again error message
is equal to unknown error : dollar sign
left right curly braces eat up message
so now we've got a single catch block
and we can test the type of the
exception using when you can see that on
line 85 then we can improve that even
further and in fact Android studio is
suggesting a way we can do that so I've
actually click on when on line 85 come
over here we're going to tilt it or
actually we can come over here and see
the tooltip assignment can be lifted out
of when what that means is that each of
the cases inside the wind block are
assigned a string to error message now
many things in Kotlin can be used as
either an expression or a statement so
we can use our web block as an
expression and assign the result to our
message so to show you what I mean I can
come over here now that I've actually
selected wind click on this and click on
lift assignment out of win and you can
see that's made that far more concise as
well and we can even remove the
declaration on
eighty-four so if we click on that line
you get this toolbar or we can hover
over at first variable error message is
assigned but never accessed just click
come over here and click on the align
and we want to click on join declaration
in assignment so that's a lot nicer but
even more concise than what we have it
and I think you'd agree that looks a lot
tidier than the previous code now using
a block of code as an expression as
we're doing for each of those branches
in the wind causes the last statement in
the block to be used now we've made sure
that the last expression in each branch
is the string that we want to display in
the log now that's any relevant for the
security exception because that's the
only branch that's got more than one
statement but that's why we had to call
prints tech trace before creating this
drink now the same warning about the
order of the exception still holds here
we have to list malformed at URL
exception before I our exception for
example because they're malformed at URL
exception is a subclass of I our
exception okay so we can also improve
the way we've read from the input stream
now Android studio won't help with that
and the Kotlin code that we'll use is
very different to what we've got here
currently
alright so let's just look at the input
stream code so we come up here and have
a look at it now Android studio won't
help with that and the Kotlin code that
we use is very different to what we've
currently got here what I'm going to do
is start by deleting the code that we
commented out in an earlier video these
three lines that we replace with a
single line let's just get rid of those
to free up a bit of space here now I'm
going to comment out all the code that
we're going to replace just so you can
compare it to the new code so we've got
this vowel reader we're going to start
on that line I'm going to move right on
down now to an including the reader dot
close and will comment that out and
instead what I'm going to do is add the
replacement code and I'm going to add
the replaceable code below it so the
replacement code is going to be vowel
stream equals connection input stream
then I'm gonna top stream dot
Buffett dot reader parentheses there dot
use open a code block and then I'm going
to type in the code block reader arrow
token or arrow on the next line XML
result dot append reader dot read text
then we've got that closing rot curly
brace now that's definitely more concise
than the code above it and demonstrates
the different approach that functional
programming takes so instead of
concerning ourselves with the exact
details of how to read from the stream
using a while loop caning the characters
received looping until there's no more
data and so on we focus on what we want
to do so the functional style that's a
specify what we want to do which in this
case is take our stream buffer it get a
reader and use it to read text and
append the results to our string builder
which is an XML result now I'm going to
be using the functional programming
style a lot throughout the course
because the codes are lot cleaner now
comparing that code to the code I
commented out and it's easy to see that
there's far less scope to introduce
errors we don't have to think about
whether we should be checking for
characters for chars read greater than 0
or chars read greater than or equal to
zero for example it's getting details
like that wrong that can cause subtle
bugs in our code now if you're not used
to functional programming it can take
some getting used to
let's just take a moment to see how we
can tell what's going on here so we're
starting off with an input stream which
we're getting from our connection it's a
connection dot input stream that bits
unchanged although we don't really need
to store it in a separate variable I
just did that so the change is a bit
less drastic now we can actually get rid
of stream and do this instead so I'm
going to delete that first line I'll
comment out that first line I'm going to
replace stream with connection dot input
stream that's even more concise as you
can see and to see what buffer is doing
we can control
to see the Kotlin sauce come over here
and click on it
remembering it's a command on a Mac now
the comments here are normally
sufficient rather than trying to
understand the code but here we can see
that it creates a buffered input stream
wrapping this stream which is exactly
what we did in the earlier code when we
use the bufferedreader now below that by
the way is the input stream reader
function so there's no need to go back
to the code to control or command click
on reader and it creates a reader on
this input stream again just what we had
in the previous object-oriented
programming code using the input stream
reader so so far everything's been
pretty much the same where it gets
really interesting now who came back to
our code is when we use this lambda to
do the reading so we can't come out down
here in one of our control click use and
we can see that it executes the given
block that's our lambda on this resource
and then closes it down correctly now
that removes the need to call reader dot
close and it'll deal correctly with any
exceptions that have thrown now the
function code itself may look a bit
complex but don't worry about that
when using the Kotlin or Java libraries
we're interested in what things do not
in exactly how they work we're learning
how to write apps not learning how to
write the android framework now the
lambda function uses the reader
parameter to read the text and append it
to XML result so it's worth having a
look quick look at the read text
function so if it just close that down
and go back and ctrl click the read text
function or command again on a Mac and
you can see it says it reads this reader
completely as a string and again that's
good
that's exactly what we wanted it to do
what's interesting though is how it does
it it uses copy to and the source for
copy 2 appears just below if we just
probably only have a bit of a look there
if that looks familiar that it should
now I haven't done this in a video
before but in theory it should work so
I'm going to drag the tab for the
read/write kkt file that event wants to
do so it appears in it so
window and to do that I just need to
make this window a little bit smaller so
I'm gonna go ahead and do that so I'm
gonna drag that out and then I'm going
to go back and expand this again and
we've got this other window now so what
I'm going to do then is I'm going to go
back to our main activity I'm going to
close down the project pane to make a
bit of space I'm going to bring this
back again and just make it a little bit
smaller so that it actually fits a
little bit better and we can compare
this code now on the right hand side to
the code that we've got commented out so
we're basically comparing the two sets
of code now the variable names are
different but you can see that both bits
of code use a char array as a buffer and
use a while loop to keep reading until
the number of chars read is less than
zero so ultimately our functional code
is doing the same thing as our previous
code now one advantage of using
functional programming is that this
library code in readwrite Katie has
probably already been used in thousands
of programs the more people that use
Kotlin the more these libraries get
tested and any bugs can ironed out now
the while loop that we had earlier would
need to be tested and if there was a
subtle bug there's Philo's chance that
would spot it so as well as cleaner code
we also get the benefit of all that
extra testing and that the standard
libraries are subjected to so I think
that makes a good case for using
functional programming wherever possible
so that's what I'm going to be doing it
throughout the course alright so going
to close down this window now there's
one more change we're going to make to
our lambda now if you've taken Sara at
Rich's Kotlin for Java developers course
which is a course from the loan
programming academy as well you know
that we don't have to use an explicit
parameter here we can replace reader
with it I'm getting back to the code
again here on line 65 so again for that
lambda we don't really have to use an
explicit parameter we can replace reader
with it in Android studio actually
suggests that in fact if I click on
reader we'll get a suggestion over here
they come over here and click on the
light bulb
we can replace explicit parameter reader
with it so I'm going to do that by
clicking it and I can just put that back
source all on the same line now just
removing the whitespace and we can
either remove the next line so with the
single statement like we've got now and
I've done that because in a single
statement like we've ended up with it's
used with a put it on the one line which
is why I've done that but that one line
of code replaces all the commented out
code above it I think you have to agree
that's pretty impressive so impressive
that we better run the app again to make
sure it still works so let's just do
that make sure that things are still
working looking at the logcat and you
can see that we've still managed to
download the XML so everything's working
fine and just confirming that our events
are still being called we're still
getting the response code of 200 and the
XML and the amount receives etc all
right so I want to stop this video here
the next video is going to be a very
short one just like the code we're going
to produce I'm starting a new video so
that this codes available with the
resources for this one now there's a
reason for that and the reason is I'm
going to delete all the code in this
method and replace it with a single line
that's right the 27 lines of code we've
got here can be replaced with just one
line in Colin so let's work on that in
the next video